.\" ModemManager(8) manual page
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2011 Aleksander Morgado
.\"

.TH MODEMMANAGER "8" "5 September 2014"

.SH NAME
ModemManager \- mobile broadband modem management daemon

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBModemManager\fR [\fIOPTION\fR...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
ModemManager provides a unified high level API for communicating with mobile
broadband modems, regardless of the protocol used to communicate with the
actual device (Generic AT, vendor-specific AT, QCDM, QMI, MBIM...).

ModemManager is a DBus-based system daemon and is not meant to be used directly
from the command line.

.SH APPLICATION OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-filter\-policy=<policy>
Specify which ports are probed and how:
.RS 9
.TP
\fB'WHITELIST-ONLY'\fR
Only devices or ports explicitly whitelisted with the 'ID_MM_DEVICE_PROCESS' udev tag are probed.
.TP
\fB'DEFAULT'\fR
All ports are allowed to be probed except for the ones explicitly greylisted as RS232 adapters or completely blacklisted.
.TP
\fB'STRICT'\fR
Only the TTY ports that are heurstically determined to be very likely to be modem ports are probed. Nay end up ignoring some devices.
.TP
\fB'PARANOID'\fR
This is equivalent to running the STRICT mode but also applying the blacklist and RS232 greylist filters explicitly.
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-no\-auto\-scan
Fully disable udev-based auto-scan looking for devices.
.TP
.B \-\-initial\-kernel\-events=<filename>
Specify location of the file where the list of initial kernel events is
available. The ModemManager daemon will process this file on startup.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Runs ModemManager with "DEBUG" log level and without daemonizing. This is useful
for debugging, as it directs log output to the controlling terminal in addition to
syslog.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print the ModemManager software version and exit.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show application options.

.SH LOGGING OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-log\-level=<level>
Sets how much information ModemManager sends to the log destination (usually
syslog's "daemon" facility). By default, only informational, warning, and error
messages are logged. Given level must be one of "ERR", "WARN", "INFO" or "DEBUG".
.TP
.B \-\-log\-file=<filename>
Specify location of the file where ModemManager will dump its log messages,
instead of syslog.
.TP
.B \-\-log\-journal
Output log message to the systemd journal.
.TP
.B \-\-log\-timestamps
Include absolute timestamps in the log output.
.TP
.B \-\-log\-relative\-timestamps
Include timestamps, relative to the start time of the daemon, in the log output.

.SH TEST OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-test\-session
Run the ModemManager daemon in the Session bus instead of the System bus.
.TP
.B \-\-test\-enable
Enable the Test DBus interface in the daemon.
.TP
.B \-\-test\-plugin\-dir=[PATH]
Specify an alternate directory where the daemon should look for vendor plugins.

.SH AUTHOR
Aleksander Morgado <aleksander@aleksander.es>

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmmcli\fR(1), \fBNetworkManager\fR(8)
